=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Opsview::RestAPI - Interact with the Opsview Rest API interface

=head1 VERSION

version 1.173270

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Opsview::RestAPI;

  my $rest=Opsview::RestAPI();
  # equivalent to
  my $rest=Opsview::RestAPI(
      url => 'http://localhost',
      username => 'admin',
      password => 'initial',
  );

  my %api_version=$rest->api_version;
  $rest->login;
  my %opsview_version=$rest->opsview_version;
  $rest->logout;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Allow for easier access to the Opsview Monitor Rest API, version 4.x and newer.
See L<https://knowledge.opsview.com/reference> for more details.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item $rest = Opsview::RestAPI->new();

Create an object using default values for 'url', 'username' and 'password'.
Extra options are:

  ssl_verify_hostname => 1
  debug => 0

=item $url = $rest->url;

=item $username = $rest->username;

=item $password = $rest->password;

Return the settings the object was configured with

=item $rest->login

Authenticate with the Opsvsiew server using the credentials given in C<new()>.  
This must be done before any other calls (except C<api_version>) are performed.

=item $api_version = $rest->api_version

Return a hash reference with details about the Rest API version in 
the Opsview Monitor instance.  May be called without being logged in.

Example hashref:

  {
    api_min_version => "2.0",
    api_version     => 5.005005,
    easyxdm_version => "2.4.19",
  },

=item $version = $rest->opsview_info

Return a hash reference contianing some details about the Opsview 
Monitor instance.

Example hashref:

  {
    hosts_limit            => "25",
    opsview_build          => "5.4.0.171741442",
    opsview_edition        => "commercial",
    opsview_version        => "5.4.0",
    server_timezone        => "Europe/London",
    server_timezone_offset => 0,
    uuid                   => "ABCDEF12-ABCD-ABCD-ABCD-ABCDEFABCDEF",
  }

=item $build = $rest->opsview_build

Return the build number of the Opsview Monitor instance

=item $interval = $rest->interval($seconds);

Return the interval to use when setting check_interval or retry_interval.  
Opsview 4.x used seconds whereas Opsview 5.x uses minutes.  

  ....
  check_interval         => $rest->interval(300),
  ....

will set an interval time of 5 minutes (300 seconds) in both 4.xand 5.x

  ....
  retry_check_interval   => $rest->interval(20),
  ....

On Opsview 5.x this will set an interval time of 20 seconds
On Opsview 4.x this will set an interval time of 1 minute

=item $result = $rest->get( api => ..., data => { ... }, params => { ... } );

=item $result = $rest->post( api => ..., data => { ... }, params => { ... } );

=item $result = $rest->put( api => ..., data => { ... }, params => { ... } );

=item $result = $rest->delete( api => ..., data => { ... }, params => { ... } );

Method call on the Rest API to interact with Opsview.  See the online
documentation at L<https://knowledge.opsview.com/reference> for more 
information.

The endpoint, data and parameters are all specified as a hash passed to the
method.  See L<examples/perldoc_examples> to see them in use.

To create a Host Template called 'AAA', for example:

  $rest->put(
    api  => 'config/servicegroup',
    data => { name => 'AAA' },
  );

To check if a plugin exists

  $result = $rest->get(
    api    => 'config/plugin/exists',
    params => { name => 'check_plugin_name', }
  );
  if ( $result->{exists} == 1 ) { .... }

To create a user:

  $rest->put(
    api  => 'config/contact',
    data => {       
    name        => 'userid',
    fullname    => 'User Name',
    password    => $some_secure_password,
    role        => { name => 'View all, change none', },
    enable_tips => 0,
    variables => 
      [ { name => "EMAIL", value => 'email@example.com' }, ],
    },
  );

To search for a host called 'MyHost0' and print specific details.  Note, some
API endpoints will always return an array, no matter how many objects are 
returned:

  $hosts = $rest->get(
    api => 'config/host',
    params => {
      'json_filter' => '{"name":"MyHost0"}',
    }
  );
  $myhost = $hosts->list->[0];
  print "Opsview Host ID: ", $myhost->{id}, $/;
  print "Hostgroup: ", $myhost->{hostgroup}->{name}, $/;
  print "IP Address: ", $myhost->{ip}, $/;

For some objects it may be useful to print out the returned data structure
so you can see what can be modified. Using the ID of the above host:

  use Data::Dump qw( pp );
  $hosts = $rest->get(
    api => 'config/host/2'
  );
  $myhost = $hosts->list->[0];
  print pp($host); # prints the data structure to STDOUT 

The data can then be modified and sent back using 'put' (put updates, 
post creates):

  $myhost->{ip} = '127.10.10.10';
  $result = $rest->put(
    api => 'config/host/2',
    data => { %$myhost },
  );
  print pp($result); # contains full updated host info from Opsview

Be aware that fetching or sending too much data in one go may cause a timeout 
via the proxy server used with Opsview (Apache2 by default) so processing the 
data in batches in the client may be required.  

C<get> (only) will handle this batching of data for you if you use the option 
C<batch_size => <size>> (all other methods ignore this).

  $hosts = $rest->get(
    api => 'config/host/2'
    batch_size => 50,
  );

The data returned should appear the same as if the following were used:

  $hosts = $rest->get(
    api => 'config/host/2'
    params => { rows => 'all' },
  );

You canot specify both the 'rows' param and 'batch_size'.  All other parameters
should be accepted.

=item $result = $rests->reload();

Make a request to initiate a synchronous reload.  An alias to

  $rest->post( api => 'reload' );

=item $result = $rest->reload_pending();

Check to see if there are any pending rconfigurfation changes that require
a reload to be performed

=item $result = $rest->logout();

Delete the login session held by Opsview Monitor and invalidate the 
internally stored data structures.

=item $rest->remove_keys_from_hash($hashref, $arrayref);

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Duncan Ferguson <duncan_j_ferguson@yahoo.co.uk>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2017 by Duncan Ferguson.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
